Readme.md, before:

![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Fa-bi-an/starter-cookie) 
# Starter Cookie
A lightweight cookiecutter template for data science projects using poetry, inspired by the awesome [Cookiecutter Data Science](https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/) Project.

## Prerequisites
To use this template, you **need** to have the following packages installed on your system:

- Python
- poetry
- cookiecutter

Optional:
- DVC (if you want to use the functionality)
- Git installed

In general, good to consider, but not necessary:
- Pyenv (for managing different python versions)
- pipx (to install poetry & cookiecutter in an isolated way)

## Installation 
To use the cookie you need to run the following command in your [Terminal](https://support.apple.com/de-de/guide/terminal/apd5265185d-f365-44cb-8b09-71a064a42125/mac)/ cmd:
```bash
cookiecutter https://github.com/Fa-bi-an/starter-cookie.git
```
This command downloads the cookie and starts the setup assistant.

## Usage
### pyenv
After installing and configuring the cookie, you can create the virtual environment using poetry. If you're using [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/blob/master/COMMANDS.md#pyenv-local) make sure to have the same version of python selected as `local` as you picked while using the setup assistant.

### poetry

```bash
poetry shell
```
After creating a virtual project environment, you can now install the predefined packages:

```bash
poetry install
```
## Optional configuration
Using this cookie and enabling the options via the setup assistant, you can use optional components.

### Install & use pre-commit git hooks
Prerequisite to use pre-commit hooks is that you have the project git initialized with `git init`.

Activate the [pre-commit hooks](https://pre-commit.com/#3-install-the-git-hook-scripts) by running the following command once:

``` bash 
pre-commit install

```
### optional: DVC
If you are using DVC, remember to [add remote storage](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/remote#example-add-a-default-local-remote).


## Your good to go!
In the notebooks directory, you will find a starter notebook. For installing  further packages from pypi just run `poetry add <package>`. For more information on how to use poetry, look at the [documentation](https://python-poetry.org/docs/basic-usage/).

# Last remarks
To better understand how this template works and how to create your own template, visit [algorithmgym](https://algorithmgym.notion.site/Create-a-cookie-template-54598c90e00341dca38e33b4afce84e5).

Commit message:

docs: added section about setup assistant

Readme.md, after:

![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Fa-bi-an/starter-cookie) 
# Starter Cookie
A lightweight cookiecutter template for data science projects using poetry, inspired by the awesome [Cookiecutter Data Science](https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/) Project.

## Prerequisites
To use this template, you **need** to have the following packages installed on your system:

- Python
- poetry
- cookiecutter

Optional:
- DVC (if you want to use the functionality)
- Git installed

In general, good to consider, but not necessary:
- Pyenv (for managing different python versions)
- pipx (to install poetry & cookiecutter in an isolated way)

## Installation 
To use the cookie you need to run the following command in your [Terminal](https://support.apple.com/de-de/guide/terminal/apd5265185d-f365-44cb-8b09-71a064a42125/mac)/ cmd:
```bash
cookiecutter https://github.com/Fa-bi-an/starter-cookie.git
```
This command downloads the cookie and starts the setup assistant.

## Usage
### setup assistant
The setup assistant will ask you **8 questions** that will help to configure your project. The first **two questions** are **about you**. It's about your name and email address. Your input will be inserted in the pyproject.toml.

The following **three questions** are **about the project**. Here you will be asked about the project name. From this name, a project slug will be derived. This is the name of the package later on. It won't have any numbers, is only lowercase, and spaces & hyphens will be replaced by underscores.

The last **four questions** are for **configurations in the project**. You will be asked about the python version you want to use (see also the section about pyenv). Furthermore, you will be asked about the usage of specific tools such as pre-commit or dvc and will create directories and config files for those tools. If you are not familiar with these tools, use option no. You will also be asked if you want to do modeling in your project. If you select yes, a modeling folder will be created, and sklearn will be installed.


### pyenv
After installing and configuring the cookie, you can create the virtual environment using poetry. If you're using [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/blob/master/COMMANDS.md#pyenv-local) make sure to have the same version of python selected as `local` as you picked while using the setup assistant.

### poetry

```bash
poetry shell
```
After creating a virtual project environment, you can now install the predefined packages:

```bash
poetry install
```
## Optional configuration
Using this cookie and enabling the options via the setup assistant, you can use optional components.

### Install & use pre-commit git hooks
Prerequisite to use pre-commit hooks is that you have the project git initialized with `git init`.

Activate the [pre-commit hooks](https://pre-commit.com/#3-install-the-git-hook-scripts) by running the following command once:

``` bash 
pre-commit install

```
### optional: DVC
If you are using DVC, remember to [add remote storage](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/remote#example-add-a-default-local-remote).


## Your good to go!
In the notebooks directory, you will find a starter notebook. For installing  further packages from pypi just run `poetry add <package>`. For more information on how to use poetry, look at the [documentation](https://python-poetry.org/docs/basic-usage/).

# Last remarks
To better understand how this template works and how to create your own template, visit [algorithmgym](https://algorithmgym.notion.site/Create-a-cookie-template-54598c90e00341dca38e33b4afce84e5).
